---
title: An Impostor's New Blog
date: 2017-01-25
tags:
    - life
draft: true    
---

Finally, after a year and half time I'm finally getting around to launching my new blog. That's a lot of time for a small static website. That should mean that this blog is packed full of fun interesting tech, designs, and innovative features, right? **It has to be perfect.** Thankfully this is not perfect, or so I keep telling myself. Perfection is the number 1 reason that I'm surrounded by half finished projects. Perfectionists often seem like people that strive for a higher quality than us mere mortals, but that's not the case. Striving for perfection is a mask for fear, and an enemy to "done". This blog is my acceptance that imperfect and done is ultimately better than perfect and incomplete. 
 
Going back in time almost 2 years ago, my reasons for wanting to launch a blog were simple; I wanted to use it as a learning experience and wanted to share some of my knowledge with others. I'm a developer by day, and spend a lot of my time in the back-end of code, buried in logic. I typically manage to side step having to do anything design related. I'm not very good at it so I try to avoid any and all design work, but because I never get any practice I'm not very good at it. I wanted to break that cycle. Along with  weak design skills I'm not a strong writer. Both were areas that I hoped to improve, all while sharing some of my experiences and expertise in a hope that someone out there in Internet land would find it helpful.

As I passed the 80% completion mark of everything I wanted to accomplish the biggest blocker quickly became perfection. I've traveled down this road many times before. It starts as I begin to approach what I had defined as being done. At the thought of my work leaving the comfort of my computer and being in front of my colleagues I begin to doubt my work and question everything. I drastically change my expectations and exponentially increase the level of effort by adding more features, refactoring all of the things in the best (seemingly most clever), and doing another redesign. Just like that I'd gone from 80% completion back to 10%. "It's not good enough" was an easy justification for me to shelve this whole project... again. 
 
This quest for perfection wasn't about high quality standards, pride, or attention to detail, it was about procrastination and fear. As soon as a project came close to being done and released into the wild, I started fantasising about my potential audience and their experience. I desperately wanted to seem intelligent and clever, and wanted my blog to emphasize those qualities. But I secretly fear that I'm not. That I've stumbled and lucked into my position in life, and that at any moment of any day everyone is going to find out that I'm woefully under qualified and completely inept. **"I'm just a big impostor and fraud"**. Georgia State Psychologists Pauline R. Clance and Suzanne A. Imes describe this phenomenon as "Impostor Syndrome" in a published paper in 1978.

**I'm a fraud and everyone is going to find out.** Like most of the biggest fears in my life this one is irrational. I panic when my airplane takes off. I fear that it's going to crash into the side of a mountain, but have no concern hoping in my car to drive somewhere, even though statistics tells me the latter is much more likely to kill me. Yet, I will still white knuckle my arm rests on the plane as if somehow I can help hold the plane together when something bad happens. Equally ridiculous is how I can be such I fraud that everyone is going to discover that I'm a complete idiot, yet as an idiot I was able to deceive everyone in the first place and for so long.

Impostor syndrome is not all together uncommon, especially among high achieving people. 

> "The beauty of the impostor syndrome is you vacillate between extreme egomania and a complete feeling of: 'I'm a fraud! Oh God, they're on to me! I'm a fraud!" -Tina Fey

<br />

> "Sometimes I wake up in the morning before going off to a shoot, and I think, I can't do this. I'm a fraud," - Kate Winslet

<br />

> "You think, 'Why would anyone want to see me again in a movie? And I don't know how to act anyway, so why am I doing this?" - Meryl Streep

<br />

> "When you go and watch a rehearsal of something you've written and it stinks, the natural feeling is 'I stink.' I'm a fraud. I need to go and hide" - Chuck Lore (Writer of Big Bang Theory)

I have an irrational fear, what now? Fear is good for exactly 2 things; preventing death, and overcoming. There's no conceivable way my life is in danger from since I'm not publishing a blog about butterflies. Chaos theory be damned. So it's time to try to overcome this fear. It's keeping me from several thing that I want in life. 

Here's what I'm doing about it.

### Do. or Do Not. There is No Try.

Irrational fear ultimately leads to suffering. It does no good. Instead of adding to an infinite todo list of things I'll never get done, I'm going to start marking them off. Instead of letting a fear of imperfections loom over me, I'm going to embrace it and invite it in for tea. I know it's there, I know what it is, I even know that other people have the sames fear and reservations. I'm going to move forward. My best learning experiences come from some of my biggest failures, so there really isn't any reason not to "do". I'm adopting the mentality that something either isn't worth my time, or it's something that I'm going to do, there is no try. 

Which brings me to today, the day I launch my blog, and share my fears. I'm sure I could spend another year ironing out 1000's of imperfections (no really I have a list), but that path ends with me tearing everything down because it's not perfect. I'm just going to do my best and hit publish, imperfections and all. I hope that others don't let fear stop them from accomplishing their goals. Fear is the path to the dark side... fear leads to anger... anger leads to hate... hate leads to suffering.